Now before we can figure out tunnels we need to make sure that the tunnel and points have connectivity
to each other.
So Rider 2 should be able to ping rather for and vice versa.
In this example I'm going to set up the tunnel from the serial interfaces so logically it looks like
we have this separate tunnel interface but the tunnel is actually configured from serial 0 2 0 2 serial
0 2 0 so not a 2 Can we paying for the 1 2 2 2 Yes we can.
And on router 4 can be paying forward at 1 to 1 to 1.
Yes we can now ping uses a different protocol to GRC.
So you need to confirm that you have connectivity using GRC from this interface to this interface.
But for the moment we've used ping as our initial test to ensure that we have basic connectivity so
to configure a tunnel you go quantity interface tunnel and you specify no I'm going to choose 0 to keep
it simple but as you see there's a wide range of tunnel numbers that you can choose from Tunnel zero
in this example has gone down the tunnel interface will only come up if we have IP connectivity to the
tunnel destination which we still need to configure but first let's configure an IP address on the tunnel
and I'm gonna configure this as a slash 30 network and once again we're going to use a private IP address.
So we're going to be sending traffic across the Internet using private IP addresses but it'll work because
Rider 3 is going to run to traffic based on the outer header or as described in the RNC is the delivery
header so the jury header and payload packet is not going to be read by the Internet Rod is they simply
gonna write traffic based on the delivery header we need to specify the tunnel mode
notice multiple options are available but we're going to use jari and IP version 4 that is actually
the default.
So when we look at the tunnel interface you'll notice that command doesn't display because that is once
again the default tunnel mode.
We now need to specify the tunnel source noticed the tunnel command gives you multiple options.
We've already chosen mode but now we'll select the source of the tunnel.
You can choose a physical interface or an IP address.
In this example I'm simply going to choose IP address and hit enter the tunnel is going to originate
from this IP address and it's going to go to a destination afforded wonder to go to.
In other words Rata for as you can see the tunnel has now come up.
And that's because we have IP connectivity from this rudder to the destination of the tunnel.
The tunnel however is not going to work because we have to configure the other side so confetti interface
tunnel 0 en route for IP address 10 dot 1 dot 3D or to keep it in the same subnet so this side is once
again tenth of 1 to 3 to 1
and the side is tendered 1 2 3 2 2 so back on Rado for tunnel mode Gyari my pEa.
You don't have to specify that command because it's the default but I'll do it here for completeness
tunnel sources forward and wonder to the to tunnel destination is forward to wander wandered 1 and hopefully
what we should see is that that tunnel comes up and there it does show IP interface brief shows us that
we now have a tunnel interface that's up up on the side and en route to
the tunnel is up en route to some route to we should be able to ping right a force tunnel interface
which we can so no just we pinging 10 dot wonder 3 to 2 but rather 3 has no visibility of that route
and that shows quite nicely that Rider 3 is able to route traffic from this IP address to this IP address
without actually reading those IP addresses simply writing traffic based on the source to this destination
so let's prove that I'll start a captcha here I'm going to start a captcha using HDL see because the
default encapsulation is HDL Si On Cisco's serial links on interface serial to slash one on rudder three
so at the momentary cease GDP we see some other messages but what I'll do is to a ping from Robert to
Toronto for again and there you go there's ICMP messages
so we can see it's an ICMP from tendered wonder 3 to 1 to 10 to 1 or 3 to 2 the layer 2 encapsulation
is HDL see the protocol used at layer three is IP version 4 and notice the source and destination ip
addresses forwarded wandered wandered one destination is Fort at 1 to 2 to 2.
In other words this writer is sending traffic to this Radha rudder 3 is going to rot based on these
IP addresses not on the IP addresses contained in the encapsulated packet at least for we can see Joey
so generic writing encapsulation using IP version for and inside there we can see the source tendered
1 or 3 to 1 and destination of tendered wonder 3 to 2.
In other words we've encapsulated an IP version full packet within an IP version 4 packet the original
traffic was a ICMP ping so there's the ping and if we go to the next packet we can see the ping reply
encapsulated in IP version 4 within injury within IP version 4 within each deal see so we've now successfully
configured a tunnel from right to to write for I'll stop that capture in the next video we'll check
where the rudder 1 can ping wrote of 5 and do simple y shock captures and do some other tests.